# LLMs Don't Make Sense

Language modelling is a guessing game. The job is how well can we guess what the
next word (more like token) is. And it's a dumb game.

Fundamentally, language modelling is a subtask. The goal isn't really to just 
guess words. Don't get me wrong, it is useful. Really useful. That's why the 
industry is throwing billions at it. But it is not the final boss. You know what 
the real language "model" is?

literally any person

And we know this because the best benchmark for literally every language model 
is human evals where they base it on correctness and vibes. That's because the 
actual goal is the human. You want to model the language maker, not predict the 
language maker's next move. These are not the same.

## The Human Experience

Fundamentally, to believe that an LLM can become AGI or ASI or whatever new, 
shiny term you wanna use, you have to believe that textual data is sufficient 
for something to become so. To me, this feels like saying that from text alone, 
it is possible to model a human experience. 

That's insane. 

I don't think it possible for even another human to model the experience of 
another through text. Hell, reading every Nietzsche book won't make you 
Nietzsche, even if we could perfectly, synthetically make an infinite amount of 
his writing. Think about how you would best try and learn another's experience.
You would probably live as they do, do as they do, speak as they do. You would 
change your sensory perceptions to match theres. It is the interaction with the 
world that shapes the experience, not reading about it. Do you really think a 
model, without the advantages of the pre-training that Humans have, can learn to 
be sentient through text??

Humans first percieve and interact before they communicate. Furthermore, text is 
only a part of our communication. Body language, facial expressions, past 
context, historical context, etc are all a part of our communication that text 
fails to capture fully. Why do you think universities put so much emphasis on 
communication
